We're getting close to writing some code,
but I first want to clarify some terms associated with object oriented programming.
I said that an object has characteristics and actions.
These characteristics have a specific name.
They're called attributes, and the actions are called methods.
Going back to the shirt example, the color,
size, style, and price would be attributes.
The action of changing the price, would be a method.
There are two more terms I want to differentiate for you, object versus class.
Here's a reminder of what I mean by object.
To continue with the shirt example,
an object would be a specific shirt,
like a yellow shirt, size: medium,
short sleeves style with a price of $15.
The yellow shirt could change its price.
Another object would be a different shirt, like a green,
small, long-sleeved shirt that costs $20.
The green shirt could change its own price as well.
Do you notice anything special about the yellow shirt and green shirt?
They both have the exact same attributes.
In other words, they both have a color,
size, style, and price.
They also have the same method,
it's like they came from a blueprint,
a generic shirt consisting of all the attributes and methods.
This generic version of an object is called a class.
You've just hit on the power of object-oriented programming.
You only need to define this blueprint known as class one time,
and then you can create specific objects from the class over and over again.
In other words, you can use the shirt blueprint,
to make as many shirt objects as you want,
in any size, shape,
color, style, and price.
Keep this picture in your head of how the words class,
object, attribute, and method relate to each other.
These are fundamental terms in object-oriented programming,
and I'll be using them throughout the lesson.
We're going to see what all of this looks like with Python code.
First, I'll give you an overview of object-oriented programming syntax.
Then you can play around with my code and you'll write your own class.